Light Freshness Edit: ASP.NET - Minimal APIs (#37060)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/minimal-apis/includes/route-handlers.md

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/7.0-samples/WebMinAPIs/Program.cs?name=snippet_sm)]

### Endpoint defined outside of Program.cs

Minimal APIs don't have to be located in the _Program.cs_ file. For example, you can set up the structure in the _Program.cs_ file, and define the endpoint in a separate file:

**Program.cs**

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/8.0-samples/MinAPISeparateFile/Program.cs)]

**TodoEndpoints.cs**

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/8.0-samples/MinAPISeparateFile/TodoEndpoints.cs)]

For more information, see the [Route groups](#route-groups) section later in this article.

### Named endpoints and link generation

You can supply a name for your endpoints to generate URLs that target the endpoint. Using a named endpoint avoids having to hard code paths in an app:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/samples/WebMinAPIs/Program.cs?name=snippet_nr)]

The preceding code displays the message _`The link to the hello route is /hello`_ from the `/` (forward slash) endpoint.

#### Criteria for endpoint names

Endpoint names must satisfy the following criteria:

> - Endpoint names are case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Endpoint names are case sensitive.
```

* Endpoint names must be globally unique.
* Endpoint names are used as the OpenAPI operation identifier (ID) when OpenAPI support is enabled. For more information, see [Generate OpenAPI documents](xref:fundamentals/openapi/aspnetcore-openapi).

### Route parameters

Route parameters can be captured as part of the route pattern definition:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/7.0-samples/WebMinAPIs/Program.cs?name=snippet_rp)]

The preceding code returns the message _The user id is 3 and book id is 7_ from the URI `/users/3/books/7`.

The route handler can declare the parameters to capture. When a request is made to a route with parameters declared to capture, the parameters are parsed and passed to the handler. This approach makes it easy to capture the values in a type-safe way. In the preceding code, the `userId` and `bookId` parameters are both type `int`.

> In the preceding code, if either route value can't be converted to an `int`, the command throws an exception. The GET request `/users/hello/books/3` throws the following exception:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding code, if either route value can't be converted to an `int`, an exception is thrown. The GET request `/users/hello/books/3` throws the following exception:
```
There is no "command" here, the framework's route binding throws the exception.
